Theory:
Robots have the potential to change our economy, our health, our standard of living,
our knowledge and the world in which we live. As the technology progresses, we are finding
new ways to use robots. The RT 3200 robot delivers an eleven-pound payload across a 36
inch pick and a placecycle in less than 1.3 seconds, maintaining a repeatability of 0.001. In
addition to speed and precision, factor in a new powerful control system, and you have an
exceptional automation system.
The net benefits are:
1. Fastest cycle time of any assembly robot assures you higher throughput and
increased productivity.
2. Most powerful control system insures quick system implementation and fast return on
yourinvestment.
3. Modular design and proven reliability make this robot very flexible and easy to service.

Included is the robot arm, controller, cables, teach pendant and documentation. (The
teach pendant is just sitting on the top of the arm, it is not mounted there). This robot arm
moves up and down at the top of the base, rotates at the top of the base,goes in and out of the
arm and rotates at the end of the arm.


(a) Controller: Controller controls and triggers the actions by processing received senses.

(c) Teach Terminal: Enable one to move the robot around as desired and program the points
and motions you want.
Successful applications:
1. Mechanical assembly
2. Machine tool load/unload
3. Water jet cutting
4. Assembly adjustments
5. Wire harness and connector assembly
Vacuum world problem:
Two locations A and B are to be cleaned. At a time only one location can be cleaned. Vacuum
cleaner can visit these locations by moving left or right and perform clean operation. Hence
percept’sinclude cleanliness status of A and B and current location of vacuum cleaner.
e.g.,
1) state (ac, bd, a) represents that, A is clean, B is dirty and currently vacuum cleaner is in A.
2) state (ad, bd, b) represents that, A is dirty, B is dirty and currently vacuum cleaner is in B.

State (ad, bd, a)
Total 8 states need to be discussed so as to reach the clean state in both blocks starting from
any random state. If current location of vacuum cleaner is clean, then cleaner should move to
another block. Otherwise, it should clean that location and then move to check status of
cleanliness in another block.
